📢 SMC JUMUAH ANNOUNCEMENTS 8 MAY 2026 


*ألسّـلام عليـكم و رحـمة اللّـه و بركـاتـه*


1. CONDOLENCES

The SMC would like to sincerely express condolences to:

▪️ Moutie Arnold and his family, as well as the Arnold and Noor families, on the passing of his wife, Najwa Arnold (née Noor).

▪️ Munadia Jantjies and the Jantjies and Waggie families on the passing of her brother, Yusuf Jantjies.

▪️ Khasifah Gordon, her family, and the rest of the Gordon family on the passing of her 4-day-old baby girl, Zanieya.

May ALLAH (SWT) grant them and all the deceased Jannatul Firdous, and grant sabr, comfort, and strength to their families and friends.

May little Zanieya’s passing be a means through which ALLAH (SWT) grants Jannatul Firdous to her parents.
Ameen Ya Rabbal ‘Alameen.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

2. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

The SMC would like to bring the following important matter to the attention of the Jamaat.
We have once again experienced incidents where people are constructing tombstones and structures around family qabrs. This is strictly prohibited as outlined in Regulations No. 3 & 4 displayed on the notice board, based on the Fatwa issued by the late former Mufti of the MJC, Almarghoom Moulana Tauha Karaan.
The construction of tombstones or structures made from concrete, bricks, marble, iron grids, or similar materials is strictly forbidden.
📌 Regulations:
(3) The erection of tombstones, stone walls, brick walls, iron grids, concrete/marble or grid beddings, or any similar structures is strictly forbidden.
(4) The SMC reserves the right to remove any unauthorized structures.
The SMC humbly, yet urgently, requests the Jamaat’s cooperation in adhering to these rules and regulations as displayed on the notice board.
⚠️ The Koebers will once again be closed from Monday to Thursday to prevent similar incidents, and will only be open on Fridays and weekends for families to visit their loved ones’ qabrs.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

3. NAME CHANGE ANNOUNCEMENT

The SMC proudly announces, on behalf of the steering committee consisting of Mr. Ebrahim Rhoda, Faizel Daniels, and Prof. Doria Daniels, the renaming of Ben Friedman Square to:
✨ STRAND MUSLIM COMMUNITY SQUARE ✨
Alhamdulillah, this significant milestone in the history of our town has finally been achieved after four years of negotiations and consultations through formal processes with the Mayoral Committee for Spatial Planning and Environment.
This area, where the square is located, was once the centre and heartbeat of our community, where our ancestors and pioneers were settled before being forcefully removed under the inhumane Group Areas Act of the Apartheid regime.
This name change serves as recognition and honour for the contribution and role Muslims played in the growth and development of our town.
The SMC sincerely thanks and acknowledges everyone who contributed towards making this achievement possible.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

4. BIRTHDAY GREETINGS 🎉
Many Slamat to Boeta Faizel Young who celebrated his 81st birthday on Thursday.

May ALLAH (SWT) bless him with long life, good health, strong Imaan, abundant Taqwa, and countless Ghairaat and Barakaat.
Ameen Ya Rabbal ‘Alameen.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

5. UMRAH CLASSES 🕋
Moulana Yusri Jabodien will be conducting Umrah classes on Tuesday evenings between Maghrib and Isha at Jamia Masjid.
✅ Everyone is welcome
✅ Facilities have also been made available for ladies
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━